Section 508 is currently being updated. It will most likely look quite
similar to many aspects of WCAG 2 Level AA conformance. This page
discusses the current Section 508 requirements and standards.

"Section 508" is actually part of a larger body of legislation - Section
508 of the Rehabilitation Act. The Rehabilitation Act was enacted in
1973 and prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in Federal
programs, among other things.

Section 508 was enacted in 1998 in order to eliminate barriers in
information technology (IT) for people with disabilities. It is both a
law and a standard. It's a law in that it requires Federal agencies to
procure and develop technologies that meet a specific accessibility
standard. Section 508 also defines what that standard is. It covers all
aspects of IT from Web pages to desktop software applications to
telecommunications equipment, and each of these product areas has
specific technical standards.

-   1194.21 Software applications and operating systems
-   1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications
-   1194.23 Telecommunications products
-   1194.24 Video and multimedia products
-   1194.25 Self contained, closed products
-   1194.26 Desktop and portable computers

While the technical standards for the different types of products do
vary from one to the other, their core requirements are quite similar. A
good way to start to grasp the intention of Section 508 is to look at
the 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria. The functional performance
criteria basically state that for any product there must be at least one
way to interact with the product that allows **all** of the following
types of users to interact with the product.

-   visually impaired (blind)
-   visually impaired (visual acuity no better than 20/70)
-   hearing impaired (deaf)
-   hearing impaired (need assistive listening devices)
-   speech impaired
-   physically impaired

Don't let these functional criteria sound too daunting. The technical
specifications define criteria for helping determine if a product meets
these functional requirements. Since this is a guide on Web
accessibility, subsection 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet
information and applications, will be looked at most closely.

Additionally, there are requirements for 1194.41 Information,
documentation, and support.

1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications
--------------------------------------------------------------------

There are 16 criteria in this subsection which cover the range of
impairments listed in the Functional Performance Criteria.

1.  A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided
    (e.g., via "alt", "longdesc", or in element content).
2.  Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be
    synchronized with the presentation.
3.  Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with
    color is also available without color, for example from context or
    markup.
4.  Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring
    an associated style sheet.
5.  Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a
    server-side image map.
6.  Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side
    image maps except where the regions cannot be defined with an
    available geometric shape.
7.  Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables.
8.  Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for
    data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column
    headers.
9.  Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame
    identification and navigation.
10. Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with
    a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.
11. A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality,
    shall be provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of
    this part, when compliance cannot be accomplished in any other way.
    The content of the text-only page shall be updated whenever the
    primary page changes.
12. When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to
    create interface elements, the information provided by the script
    shall be identified with functional text that can be read by
    assistive technology.
13. When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other
    application be present on the client system to interpret page
    content, the page must provide a link to a plug-in or applet that
    complies with ยง1194.21(a)
14. When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form
    shall allow people using assistive technology to access the
    information, field elements, and functionality required for
    completion and submission of the form, including all directions and
    cues.
15. A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive
    navigation links.
16. When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and
    given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.

To get a better handle on these requirements they can be summarized with
the following list of 11 topics.

-   Provide alternative text for all images, or in the case of image
    maps, provide plain text links
-   Do not depend on color alone for communicating information
-   The logical flow of the page should follow the source code, or DOM.
-   Data tables should have headings
-   Frames should have titles
-   Avoid flickering on the screen between 2-55 Hz
-   Content displayed with scripts must be accessible
-   Content delivered via plugins must be accessible
-   Online forms must be coded correctly
-   Provide a way for users to skip repetitive navigation links
-   Allow users to adjust the time permitted for timed responses

If you try to apply these requirements to modern Web techniques, you
might find yourself with more questions than answers. These requirements
were written without concrete ways to test some of them. They were
written in 1998 when the Web was a very different platform. One of the
reasons Section 508 is currently being updated is to better handle the
way the modern Web works and to deal with those realities.

Instead of obsessing about meeting Section 508 requirements, you should
be planning on meeting WCAG 2, Level AA conformance, which the updated
Section 508 will most likely reference. **There is a good chance Section
508 will be updated within 2013.**

Do I Have to Follow Section 508?
--------------------------------

**You don't have to follow Section 508 unless you have to follow Section
508.** By default, the Federal government is the only group that has to
follow Section 508. It is a requirement of Federal agencies - that's it.

Many other groups, like state governments and higher education
institutions have made requirements that point to Section 508 as their
state's or institutions standards. Those elections were made by those
bodies - they were not forced on them by the Federal government.

Several other entities have created their own accessibility standards
which are based on Section 508, but they might not be identical to
Section 508.

Except for Federal agencies, unless your entity has explicitly adopted
Section 508, you don't have to follow it. However, because of recent
actions by the Department of Justice and proposed changes to the
Americans with Disabilities Act, all entities should plan on creating
and deploying accessible IT.

Further Reading
---------------

-   [Current Section 508
    Standards](http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm#current)
-   [2011 Draft of the Updated Standards and
    Guidelines](http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/refresh/draft-rule.htm)

